Add Tutorial Running Kubelet in Standalone Mode (#48094)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tutorials/cluster-management/kubelet-standalone.md

---
title: Running Kubelet in Standalone Mode
content_type: tutorial
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->

This tutorial shows you how to run a standalone Kubelet instance.

One use case for standalone mode is that the Kubelet allows you to manage containers
using Pod manifests while leveraging a subset of advanced Kubernetes features, like CNI networking,
without the need to being registered with the API server.

Another use case for standalone Kubelet is if you wanted to run the `kube-api-server`
and `etcd` services as independent Pods for isolation and safety, not as Pods in the cluster,
as in the classic self-hosting scenario.

> This tutorial covers the first use case.

Author: Done, with minor changes. See if you agree.

> This tutorial covers the first use case.

Reviewer: SGTM

## {{% heading "objectives" %}}

* Install `cri-o`, and `kubelet` on a Linux system and run them as `systemd` services.
* Launch a Pod running `nginx` that listens to requests on TCP port 80 on the Pod's IP address.
* Learn how the different components of the solution interact among themselves.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

> - Admin (`root`) access to a Linux system with `systemd` and `iptables`.

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
- Admin (`root`) access to a Linux system that uses `systemd` and `iptables` (or nftables with `iptables` emulation).
```

Author: Done

- Access to the Internet to download the components needed for the tutorial, such as:
    - A {{< glossary_tooltip text="container runtime" term_id="container-runtime" >}}

> that implements the Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="cri" text="(CRI)">}}.

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
      that implements the Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="cri" text="(CRI)">}}.
```

Author: Done

>     - Network plugins {{< glossary_tooltip text="Container Networking Interface (CNI)" term_id="cni" >}}

Reviewer: (nit)
```suggestion
    - Network plugins (these are often known as
      {{< glossary_tooltip text="CNI" term_id="cni" >}} plugins)
```

Author: Done

containers in those Pods) not to use swap space. To find out how Pods can actually
use the available swap, you can read more about
[swap memory management](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#swap-memory) on Linux nodes.
{{< /note >}}

If you have swap memory enabled, either disable it or add `failSwapOn: false` to the
kubelet configuration file.

To disable swap temporarily:

```shell
sudo swapoff -a
```

To make this change persistent across reboots:

Make sure swap is disabled in `/etc/fstab` or `systemd.swap`, depending how it was configured on your system.

### Enable IPv4 packet forwarding

```shell
sudo tee /etc/sysctl.d/k8s.conf <<EOF
net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1
EOF
```

```shell
sudo sysctl --system
```

The output is similar to:

```
...
* Applying /etc/sysctl.d/k8s.conf ...
net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1
* Applying /etc/sysctl.conf ...
```

## Download, install, and configure the components

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

### Create the sources directory

Download the latest available versions of the required packages (recommended).

The relative path to the downloaded software is assumed to be the local `sources` directory.

```shell
mkdir sources
cd sources
```

> ### Container runtime

Author: Done

> ### Container runtime

Author: What this for: `{#container-runtime}`?

> ### Container runtime

Reviewer: That sets a [fragment identifier](https://www.w3.org/DesignIssues/Fragment.html) for the heading.

> ### Container runtime

Author: Done. Thanks for the link.

tutorial.

```shell
crictl -v
```

The output is similar to:

```
crictl version v1.31.1
```

### Network Plugins

The `cri-o` installer installs and configures the `cni-plugins` package. You can
verify the installation running the following command:

```shell
/opt/cni/bin/bridge --version
```

The output is similar to:

```
CNI bridge plugin v1.5.1
CNI protocol versions supported: 0.1.0, 0.2.0, 0.3.0, 0.3.1, 0.4.0, 1.0.0
```

To check the configuration:

```shell
cat /etc/cni/net.d/11-crio-ipv4-bridge.conflist
```

The output is similar to:

```json
{
  "cniVersion": "1.0.0",
  "name": "crio",
  "plugins": [
    {
      "type": "bridge",
      "bridge": "cni0",
      "isGateway": true,
      "ipMasq": true,
      "hairpinMode": true,
      "ipam": {
        "type": "host-local",
        "routes": [
            { "dst": "0.0.0.0/0" }
        ],
        "ranges": [
            [{ "subnet": "10.85.0.0/16" }]
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

{{< note >}}
Make sure that the default `subnet` range (`10.85.0.0/16`) does not overlap with
one of your active networks. If so, you can edit the file and change it
accordingly. Restart the service after the change.
{{< /note >}}

> ### Kubelet

Author: Done

Download the [latest stable release](/releases/download/) of the Kubelet.

{{< tabs name="download_kubelet" >}}
{{< tab name="x86-64" codelang="bash" >}}
curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/release/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubelet"
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="ARM64" codelang="bash" >}}
curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/release/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/arm64/kubelet"
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Configure:

{{< caution >}}
The Kubelet configuration used for this tutorial is insecure by design and should
_not_ be used in a production environment.

> {{< /caution >}}

Author: Agree. Done

```shell
sudo mkdir -p /etc/kubernetes/manifests
```

```shell
sudo tee /etc/kubernetes/kubelet.yaml <<EOF
apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: KubeletConfiguration
authentication:
  webhook:
    enabled: false
authorization:

>   mode: AlwaysAllow

Author: Done, with a tweak

enableServer: false
logging:
  format: text
readOnlyPort: 10255
staticPodPath: /etc/kubernetes/manifests
containerRuntimeEndpoint: unix:///var/run/crio/crio.sock
EOF
```

> Note: Use the `readOnlyPort: 10255` for unauthenticated queries to the Kubelet's API.

Author: Done

sudo systemctl enable --now kubelet.service
```

Quick test:

```shell
systemctl is-active kubelet.service
```

The output is similar to:

```
active
```

Detailed service check:

```shell
sudo journalctl -u kubelet.service
```

You can query the Kubelet's API endpoint at `http://localhost:10250/pods`:

```shell
curl http://localhost:10250/pods
```

Tip: Use `jq` to "prettify" the JSON output:

```shell
curl http://localhost:10250/pods | jq '.'
```

The output is similar to:

```json
{
  "kind": "PodList",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "metadata": {},
  "items": null
}
```

## Run a Pod in the Kubelet

In standalone mode, you can run Pods using Pod manifests. The manifests can either
be on the local filesystem, or fetched via HTTP from a configuration source.

Create a manifest for a Pod:

```shell
cat <<EOF > static-web.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: static-web
spec:
  containers:
    - name: web
      image: nginx
      ports:
        - name: web
          containerPort: 80
          protocol: TCP
EOF
```

Deploy:

Copy the `static-web.yaml` manifest file to the `/etc/kubernetes/manifests` directory.

```shell
sudo cp static-web.yaml /etc/kubernetes/manifests/
```

> ### Find out information about the Kubelet and the Pod

Author: Done

> ### Find out information about the Kubelet and the Pod

Author: What is this for: `{#find-out-information}`?

> ### Find out information about the Kubelet and the Pod

Author: Done

```shell
sudo systemctl disable --now kubelet.service
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo rm /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service
sudo rm /usr/bin/kubelet
sudo rm -rf /etc/kubernetes
sudo rm -rf /var/lib/kubelet
sudo rm -rf /var/log/containers
sudo rm -rf /var/log/pods
```

### Container Runtime

```shell
sudo systemctl disable --now crio.service
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/bin
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/lib
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/share
sudo rm -rf /usr/libexec/crio
sudo rm -rf /etc/crio
sudo rm -rf /etc/containers
```

### Network Plugins

```shell
sudo rm -rf /opt/cni
sudo rm -rf /etc/cni
sudo rm -rf /var/lib/cni
```

## Conclusion

This page covered the basic aspects of deploying a kubelet in standalone mode.
You are now ready to deploy Pods and test additional functionality.

Notice that in standalone mode the Kubelet does *not* support fetching Pod
configurations from the control plane (because there is no control plane connection).

You also cannot use a {{< glossary_tooltip text="ConfigMap" term_id="configmap" >}} or a
{{< glossary_tooltip text="Secret" term_id="secret" >}} to configure the containers
in a static Pod.

## {{% heading "whatsnext" %}}

> 

Author: Done

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

### Install a container runtime {#container-runtime}

Download the latest available versions of the required packages (recommended).

This tutorial suggests installing the [CRI-O container runtime](https://github.com/cri-o/cri-o)
(external link).

There are several [ways to install](https://github.com/cri-o/cri-o/blob/main/install.md)
the CRI-O container runtime, depending on your particular Linux distribution. Although
CRI-O recommends using either `deb` or `rpm` packages, this tutorial uses the
_static binary bundle_ script of the
[CRI-O Packaging project](https://github.com/cri-o/packaging/blob/main/README.md),
both to streamline the overall process, and to remain distribution agnostic.

The script installs and configures additional required software, such as
[`cni-plugins`](https://github.com/containernetworking/cni), for container
networking, and [`crun`](https://github.com/containers/crun) and
[`runc`](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc), for running containers.

The script will automatically detect your system's processor architecture
(`amd64` or `arm64`) and select and install the latest versions of the software packages.

> **CRI-O**

Reviewer: If we can, use [tabs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/hugo-shortcodes/#tabs) here.

I do think it helps to explain a bit about container runtime setup, but that can be as simple as: “go to this page about installing [thing] for Kubernetes“ or “follow these instructions, and then do this one Kubernetes-specific step“

If we can merge this and iterate, we should. The perfect is the enemy of the published.

Author: There is no need for tabs for this step, as the script makes the arch selection _automagically_ for the user (it's explained in the link provided).

Reviewer: Oh; in that case, maybe:
```suggestion
### Set up CRI-O {#cri-o-setup}
```
?

Author: Agree. Changed.

Visit the [releases](https://github.com/cri-o/cri-o/releases) page (external link).

Download the static binary bundle script:

```shell
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cri-o/packaging/main/get > crio-install
```

Run the installer script:

```shell
sudo bash crio-install
```

Enable and start the `crio` service:

```shell
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable --now crio.service
```

Quick test:

```shell

> sudo systemctl is-active containerd.service

Reviewer 2: crio?

Author: Fixed.
Thanks!

```

The output is similar to:

```
active
```

Detailed service check:

```shell
sudo journalctl -f -u crio.service
```

> Note: The `cri-o` installer also provides the `crictl` command to manage and inspect
> Pods, containers, and container images. The `crictl` command is out of the scope
> of this tutorial.

Reviewer: We have a special shortcode for notes
```suggestion
{{< note >}}
The `cri-o` installer also provides the `crictl` command to manage and inspect
Pods, containers, and container images. The `crictl` command is out of the scope
of this tutorial.
{{< /note >}}
```

Author: I'll just remove the paragraph, it just adds unnecessary noise and serves no purpose in the tutorial.

        "routes": [
            { "dst": "0.0.0.0/0" }
        ],
        "ranges": [
            [{ "subnet": "10.85.0.0/16" }]
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

{{< note >}}
Make sure that the default `subnet` range (`10.85.0.0/16`) does not overlap with
one of your active networks. If there is an overlap, you can edit the file and change it
accordingly. Restart the service after the change.
{{< /note >}}

### Download and set up the kubelet

Download the [latest stable release](/releases/download/) of the Kubelet.

{{< tabs name="download_kubelet" >}}
{{< tab name="x86-64" codelang="bash" >}}
curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/release/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubelet"
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="ARM64" codelang="bash" >}}
curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/release/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/arm64/kubelet"
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Configure:

```shell
sudo mkdir -p /etc/kubernetes/manifests
```

```shell
sudo tee /etc/kubernetes/kubelet.yaml <<EOF
apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: KubeletConfiguration
authentication:
  webhook:
    enabled: false # Do NOT use in production clusters!
authorization:

>   mode: AlwaysAllow # Do NOT use in production clusters!

Reviewer 3: should we say what needs to be configures in production if we say not to use this in production?

Author: Thank you for reviewing, @SergeyKanzhelev. 

In this tutorial, we don't cover the setup of a production-ready Kubelet. At the beginning of the tutorial, we specify that:

_This tutorial does not cover the details you need for running a resilient control plane._

and:

_The Kubelet configuration used for this tutorial is insecure by design and should not be used in a production environment._

So we don't include instructions on how to configure a secure Kubelet and leave those details to existing Kubernetes cluster setup documentation.

What do you think @sftim? Should we add content to cover what is needed to be configured for a production environment?

Reviewer 3: Can we at least point to some documentation where to look next? I think it is a bad practice to say that something is not for production without any pointers where to look next.

Reviewer: We could point people to https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/ - in theory.

Within that section we could one day document cluster setup using standalone kubelets, for example as part as a scalable control plane. I doubt we'll get that documented within 36 months from today, and I don't want to block this PR on the other documentation that might one day exist.

Reviewer 3: Do we have any pointers on what those settings are used for? Maybe just point to the reference of kubelet config then

enableServer: false
logging:
  format: text
address: 127.0.0.1 # Restrict access to localhost

> readOnlyPort: 10255 # Do NOT use in production clusters!

Reviewer 3: same comment as above. Explain that it is not needed in production

Reviewer: See https://github.com/kubernetes/website/pull/48094/files#r1800404689

Reviewer 3: just explanaition that in production this endpoint will likely not be needed would suffice. We scared the reader with the message, now we need to explain where to go next for explanaition on how to convert this into the production deployment

Reviewer: I don't expect we'll find capacity to write that @SergeyKanzhelev. You are welcome to convince me / SIG Docs that I am wrong!

staticPodPath: /etc/kubernetes/manifests
containerRuntimeEndpoint: unix:///var/run/crio/crio.sock
EOF
```

{{< note >}}
Because you are not setting up a production cluster, you are using plain HTTP
(`readOnlyPort: 10255`) for unauthenticated queries to the kubelet's API.
{{< /note >}}

> See [Ports and Protocols](/docs/reference/networking/ports-and-protocols/).

Reviewer 3: what the need for this link? Cannot connect to anything around it.

Author: Do you mean that the link is broken or that it's irrelevant?

Reviewer: Try
```suggestion
See [Ports and Protocols](/docs/reference/networking/ports-and-protocols/) to
understand which ports Kubernetes components use.
```

Reviewer 3: yes, this is what I meant

Author: Done

Install:

```shell
chmod +x kubelet
sudo cp kubelet /usr/bin/
```

Create a `systemd` service unit file:

```shell
sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service <<EOF
[Unit]
Description=Kubelet

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/bin/kubelet \
 --config=/etc/kubernetes/kubelet.yaml
Restart=always

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note, the command line argument `--kubeconfig` is not specified. This argument sets the path to a kubeconfig file, specifying how to connect to the API server. Providing `--kubeconfig` enables API server mode,
omitting `--kubeconfig` enables standalone mode.
```

Author: I'll add that. Thanks.

Reviewer: Don't use “Note“ though. We use note to call attention to things, and that's not appropriate here.

Author: Done, with some edits

Enable and start the `kubelet` service:

```shell
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable --now kubelet.service
```

Quick test:

```shell

> sudo systemctl is-active kubelet.service

Reviewer 3: or check the /healthz endpoint?

Author: Like this?

```
curl http://localhost:10255/healthz?verbose
[+]ping ok
[+]log ok
[+]syncloop ok
healthz check passed
```
I like it, thanks for the suggestion.  
But we still want to verify that the `systemd` unit that we configured in a previous step  is working as expected.

Author: Done

```

Connect to the `nginx` server Pod on `http://<IP>:<Port>` (port 80 is the default), in this case:

```shell
curl http://10.85.0.4
```

The output is similar to:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Welcome to nginx!</title>
...
```

## Where to look for more details

If you need to diagnose a problem getting this tutorial to work, you can look
within the following directories for monitoring and troubleshooting:

```
/var/lib/cni
/var/lib/containers
/var/lib/kubelet

/var/log/containers
/var/log/pods
```

## Clean up

### Kubelet

```shell
sudo systemctl disable --now kubelet.service
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo rm /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service
sudo rm /usr/bin/kubelet
sudo rm -rf /etc/kubernetes
sudo rm -rf /var/lib/kubelet
sudo rm -rf /var/log/containers
sudo rm -rf /var/log/pods
```

### Container Runtime

```shell
sudo systemctl disable --now crio.service
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/bin
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/lib
sudo rm -rf /usr/local/share
sudo rm -rf /usr/libexec/crio
sudo rm -rf /etc/crio
sudo rm -rf /etc/containers
```

### Network Plugins

```shell
sudo rm -rf /opt/cni
sudo rm -rf /etc/cni
sudo rm -rf /var/lib/cni
```

> ## Conclusion

Reviewer 3: some things that is worth mentioning in this doc is what features are working for standalone mode.

Some examples on what needs to be working off the top of my head:
- Credentials provider for image pull secrets
- Configuring security like AppArmor and SeLinux 
- Host path, emptyDIr
- Probes

Some things worth to mention will not work:
- Any of Kubectl commands with no way to enable those
- PVC
- Runtime class likely not supported

Would be great to have lists like this

Author: They seem like valid points to me but they've suggested me to keep this tutorial focused on the objectives, so I need to think how to add these lists and not overly complicate it. 

@sftim, I'll need a little guidance with this last request. Thanks.

Reviewer: For guidance, remember you can ask in #sig-docs on Kubernetes' Slack.

> * Credentials provider for image pull secrets
> 
> * Configuring security like AppArmor and SeLinux
> 
> * Host path, emptyDIr
> 
> * Probes

I think we can skip these / I don't see why we need to mention them in this tutorial.

Author: Agree

```shell
curl http://localhost:10250/pods | jq '.'
```

The output is similar to:

```json
{
  "kind": "PodList",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "metadata": {},
  "items": null
}
```

## Run a Pod in the Kubelet

In standalone mode, you can run Pods using Pod manifests. The manifests can either
be on the local filesystem, or fetched via HTTP from a configuration source.

Create a manifest for a Pod:

```shell
cat <<EOF > static-web.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: static-web
spec:
  containers:
    - name: web
      image: nginx
      ports:
        - name: web
          containerPort: 80
          protocol: TCP
EOF
```

Copy the `static-web.yaml` manifest file to the `/etc/kubernetes/manifests` directory.

```shell
sudo cp static-web.yaml /etc/kubernetes/manifests/
```

### Find out information about the Kubelet and the Pod {#find-out-information}

The Pod networking plugin creates a network bridge (`cni0`) and a pair of `veth` interfaces
for each Pod (one of the pair is inside the newly made Pod, and the other is at the host level).

You can query (again) the Kubelet's API endpoint at `http://localhost:10250/pods`:

```shell

> curl http://localhost:10250/pods | jq '.'

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
curl http://localhost:10255/pods | jq '.'
```

Kubelet's API is accessed on port 10250 using HTTPS by default.

Author: Fixed.
Good catch. I've also found the same error on lines 340, 343, 392

```

To obtain the IP address of the `static-web` Pod:

```shell

> curl http://localhost:10250/pods | jq '.items[].status.podIP'

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
curl http://localhost:10255/pods | jq '.items[].status.podIP'
```

Author: Fixed.
Thanks for checking.

Reviewer 5: Better verify this in your cluster. I'm not sure this works or not.

Author: Yes, I can confirm that this works. The Kubelet config file has `readOnlyPort: 10255`, as suggested by @tallclair (sig-node). I've tested _all_ the commands and configurations shown in the tutorial.

### Download and set up the kubelet

Download the [latest stable release](/releases/download/) of the Kubelet.

{{< tabs name="download_kubelet" >}}
{{< tab name="x86-64" codelang="bash" >}}
curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/release/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubelet"
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="ARM64" codelang="bash" >}}
curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/release/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/arm64/kubelet"
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Configure:

```shell
sudo mkdir -p /etc/kubernetes/manifests
```

```shell
sudo tee /etc/kubernetes/kubelet.yaml <<EOF
apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: KubeletConfiguration
authentication:
  webhook:
    enabled: false # Do NOT use in production clusters!
authorization:
  mode: AlwaysAllow # Do NOT use in production clusters!
enableServer: false
logging:
  format: text
address: 127.0.0.1 # Restrict access to localhost
readOnlyPort: 10255 # Do NOT use in production clusters!
staticPodPath: /etc/kubernetes/manifests
containerRuntimeEndpoint: unix:///var/run/crio/crio.sock
EOF
```

{{< note >}}
Because you are not setting up a production cluster, you are using plain HTTP

> (`readOnlyPort: 10255`) for unauthenticated queries to the kubelet's API.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
(`readOnlyPort: 10255`) for unauthenticated queries to the kubelet's API.
The port is used to query `/healthz` and `/pods` endpoints to demonstrate that kubelet works.
```

> {{< /note >}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

The authentication webhook is disabled and authorization mode is set to `AlwaysAllow` for the purpose of this tutorial. You can learn more about [Authorization modes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authorization/#authorization-modules) and [webhook authentication](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/webhook/) to properly configure kubelet in standalone mode in your environment.
{{< /note >}}
```

Reviewer 3: I actually not sure if there are anything else can be used in standalone mode. Never looked deep there, but I feel that those settings might be OK even for prod.

Reviewer: A tweak to the suggestion: use a site-relative URL

Author: Done.
@sftim, aren't those links site-relative URLs? (/docs/...)

```

The output is similar to:

```
"10.241.1.11"
```

Connect to the `nginx` server on `http://<IP>:<Port>` (port 80 is the default), in this case:

```shell
curl http://10.241.1.11
```

The output is similar to:

```
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>Welcome to nginx!</title>
...
```

## Where to look for more details

If you need to diagnose a problem getting this tutorial to work, you can look
within the following directories for monitoring and troubleshooting:

```
/var/lib/cni
/var/lib/containerd
/var/lib/kubelet

/var/log/containers
/var/log/pods
```

## Clean up

### Kubelet

```shell
sudo systemctl disable --now kubelet.service
sudo rm /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service
sudo rm /usr/bin/kubelet
sudo rm -rf /etc/kubernetes
sudo rm -rf /var/lib/kubelet
sudo rm -rf /var/log/containers
sudo rm -rf /var/log/pods
```

### Container Runtime

```shell
sudo systemctl disable --now containerd.service
sudo rm /etc/systemd/system/containerd.service
sudo rm /usr/local/bin/containerd
sudo rm -rf /etc/containerd
sudo rm -rf /var/lib/containerd
```

### Network Plugins

```shell
sudo rm -rf /opt/cni
sudo rm -rf /etc/cni
sudo rm -rf /var/lib/cni
```

> 

Reviewer: Ideally also:
```

### systemd running configuration

`systemd daemon-reload`

```
(or similar)

Author: Done

Download:

{{< tabs name="download_containerd" >}}
{{< tab name="x86-64" codelang="bash" >}}
curl -LO https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/download/v1.7.22/containerd-1.7.22-linux-amd64.tar.gz
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="ARM64" codelang="bash" >}}
curl -LO https://github.com/containerd/containerd/releases/download/v1.7.22/containerd-1.7.22-linux-arm64.tar.gz
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

```shell
curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/containerd/containerd/main/containerd.service
```

Configure:

```shell
sudo mkdir -p /etc/containerd

sudo tee /etc/containerd/config.toml <<EOF
version = 2

[plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".cni]

    # binaries
    bin_dir = "/opt/cni/bin"

    # configure pod networking
    conf_template = "/etc/cni/cni.template"
EOF
```

Install:

{{< tabs name="install_containerd" >}}
{{< tab name="x86-64" codelang="bash" >}}
sudo tar Cxzvf /usr/local/ containerd-1.7.22-linux-amd64.tar.gz
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="ARM64" codelang="bash" >}}
sudo tar Cxzvf /usr/local/ containerd-1.7.22-linux-arm64.tar.gz
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

```shell
sudo cp containerd.service /etc/systemd/system/

> sudo systemctl daemon reload

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
```

Reviewer 6: Nice.
Line 327 needs to be updated also.

Author: ... and line 474. Thanks!
Done

spec:
  containers:
    - name: web
      image: nginx
      ports:
        - name: web
          containerPort: 80
          protocol: TCP
EOF
```

Deploy:

Copy the `static-web.yaml` manifest file to the `/etc/kubernetes/manifests` directory.

```shell
sudo cp static-web.yaml /etc/kubernetes/manifests/
```

### Find out information about the Kubelet and the static Pod

The Pod networking plugin creates a pair of `veth` interfaces for each Pod
(one of the pair is inside the newly made Pod, and the other is at the host level).

Retrieve information about the example Pod's network interface:

```shell
ip link show type veth up
```

The output is similar to:

```
6: veth85d4e050@if2: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc noqueue state UP mode DEFAULT group default
...
```

Use the output to retrieve the IPv4 address of the `veth` interface:

```shell
ip -f inet address show dev veth85d4e050
```

The output is similar to:

```
    inet 10.241.1.1/32 scope global veth5a017fc1
    ...
```

You can query the Kubelet's API endpoint at `http://localhost:10250/pods`:

```shell
curl http://localhost:10250/pods
```

Tip: Use `jq` to "prettify" the JSON output:

```shell

> curl http://10.241.1.1:10250/pods | jq '.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl http://localhost:10250/pods | jq '.'
```

Author: Done

Author: @sftim I think I made a mistake (HEAD number) when I squashed the commits and accidentally included doc `content/es/docs/tasks/network/_index.md` in my last commit, That doc is from another PR. How can I fix it?

Author: @sftim, I think I've managed to un-squash the PR and now I don't see that network file.

Author: I think that the **k8s-ci-robot** added the `area/localization` and `language/es` labels because of that network file. Sorry!

```

To obtain the IP address of the `nginx` Pod:

```shell

> curl http://10.241.1.1:10250/pods | jq '.items[].status.podIP'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl http://localhost:10250/pods | jq '.items[].status.podIP'
```

Author: Done

---
title: Running Kubelet in Standalone Mode
content_type: tutorial
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->

This tutorial shows you how to run a standalone Kubelet instance.

> You may have have different motivations for running a standalone kubelet.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
You may have different motivations for running a standalone kubelet.
```

Author: Done

This tutorial is aimed at introducing you to Kubernetes, even if you don't have
much experience with it. You can follow this tutorial and learn about node setup,

> basic (static) Pods, and how Kubernetes manages containers.

Reviewer 5: Don't see value of this paragraph.

Author: Can you suggest a different one? The tutorial still needs an introduction. 
@sftim, we went through several iterations of this opening paragraph already.

Reviewer: I drafted this, and I think it helps readers if we explain who our target audience are. I don't support removing it.

Reviewer 5: My take is that this page is useful because it helps explain 1) how static Pods are managed by the "node agent"; 2) why there is a standalone mode for kubelet; 3) how to play with kubelet under standalone mode, i.e. insecure ports, no kubeconfig, no node registration, etc.

My concern is about this statement, "This tutorial is aimed at introducing you to Kubernetes, even if you don't have much experience with it. "

Once you have followed this tutorial, you could try using a cluster that has a
{{< glossary_tooltip text="control plane" term_id="control-plane" >}} to manage pods
and nodes, and other types of objects. For example,

> [Hello, minikube](/docs/tutorials/hello-minikube/).

Reviewer 5: This sounds like a precondition of running a cluster, but it is not.

Author: Does it sound like a precondition? Can you rephrase it so it doesn't?

Reviewer 5: How about just remove this paragraph?

Author: @sftim, do you agree to remove this paragraph?

You can also run the kubelet in standalone mode to suit production use cases, such as
to run the control plane for a highly available, resiliently deployed cluster. This
tutorial does not cover the details you need for running a resilient control plane.

## {{% heading "objectives" %}}

* Install `cri-o`, and `kubelet` on a Linux system and run them as `systemd` services.
* Launch a Pod running `nginx` that listens to requests on TCP port 80 on the Pod's IP address.
* Learn how the different components of the solution interact among themselves.

{{< caution >}}
The Kubelet configuration used for this tutorial is insecure by design and should

> _not_ be used in a production environment.

Reviewer 5: This contradicts with the statement on line 21.

Author: Can you elaborate?

Reviewer 5: on line 21,

> You can also run the kubelet in standalone mode to suit production use cases, such as
to run the control plane for a highly available, resiliently deployed cluster.

Now this statement says that the configuration is not suitable for production use cases.

Author: It doesn't say that they can use the same Kubelet configuration shown in the tutorial for a production cluster. At least I don't see it. The last sentence of the same paragraph says: "This tutorial does not cover the details you need for running a resilient control plane".

Author: I've also added various `# Do NOT use in production clusters!` notes to the Kubelet's config file, so it makes it clear that what is shown in the tutorial should not be used in a production environment.

{{< /caution >}}

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

- Admin (`root`) access to a Linux system that uses `systemd` and `iptables`
  (or nftables with `iptables` emulation).
- Access to the Internet to download the components needed for the tutorial, such as:
    - A {{< glossary_tooltip text="container runtime" term_id="container-runtime" >}}
    that implements the Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="cri" text="(CRI)">}}.
    - Network plugins (these are often known as

>     {{< glossary_tooltip text="Container Networking Interface (CNI)" term_id="cni" >}})

Reviewer 5: don't indent by 4 spaces. In markdown, 4-spaces indentation could be interpreted as code snippets.

Author: Done. I didn't know that. I thought I was just indenting the bullet points. Sorry.

To disable swap temporarily:

```shell
sudo swapoff -a
```

To make this change persistent across reboots:

Make sure swap is disabled in either `/etc/fstab` or `systemd.swap`, depending how it was
configured on your system.

### Enable IPv4 packet forwarding

To check if IPv4 packet forwarding is enabled:

```shell
cat /proc/sys/net/ipv4/ip_forward
```

If the output is `1`, it is already enabled. If the output is `0`, then follow next steps.

To enable IPv4 packet forwarding, create a configuration file that sets the
`net.ipv4.ip_forward` parameter to `1`:

```shell
sudo tee /etc/sysctl.d/k8s.conf <<EOF
net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1
EOF
```
Apply the changes to the system:

```shell
sudo sysctl --system
```

The output is similar to:

```
...
* Applying /etc/sysctl.d/k8s.conf ...
net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1
* Applying /etc/sysctl.conf ...
```

## Download, install, and configure the components

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

### Create the sources directory

Download the latest available versions of the required packages (recommended).

The relative path to the downloaded software is assumed to be the local `sources` directory.

```shell
mkdir sources
cd sources
```

> 

Reviewer 5: I don't think this is relevant to the tutorial.

Author: Agree. Done

networking, and [crun](https://github.com/containers/crun) and
[`runc`](https://github.com/opencontainers/runc), for running containers.

The script will automatically detect your system's processor architecture
(`amd64` or `arm64`) and select and install the latest versions of the software packages.

**CRI-O**

Visit the [releases](https://github.com/cri-o/cri-o/releases) page (external link).

Download the static binary bundle script:

```shell
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/cri-o/packaging/main/get > crio-install
```

Run the installer script:

```shell
sudo bash crio-install
```

Enable and start the `crio` service:

```shell
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable --now crio.service
```

Quick test:

```shell
sudo systemctl is-active containerd.service
```

The output is similar to:

```
active
```

Detailed service check:

```shell
sudo journalctl -f -u crio.service
```

Note: The `cri-o` installer also provides the `crictl` command to manage and inspect
Pods, containers, and container images. The `crictl` command is out of the scope
of this tutorial.

```shell
crictl -v
```

The output is similar to:

```
crictl version v1.31.1
```

> 

Reviewer 5: This is irrelevant too?

Author: Agree

### Install  network plugins

The `cri-o` installer installs and configures the `cni-plugins` package. You can
verify the installation running the following command:

```shell
/opt/cni/bin/bridge --version
```

The output is similar to:

```
CNI bridge plugin v1.5.1
CNI protocol versions supported: 0.1.0, 0.2.0, 0.3.0, 0.3.1, 0.4.0, 1.0.0
```

To check the default configuration:

```shell
cat /etc/cni/net.d/11-crio-ipv4-bridge.conflist
```

The output is similar to:

```json
{
  "cniVersion": "1.0.0",
  "name": "crio",
  "plugins": [
    {
      "type": "bridge",
      "bridge": "cni0",
      "isGateway": true,
      "ipMasq": true,
      "hairpinMode": true,
      "ipam": {
        "type": "host-local",
        "routes": [
            { "dst": "0.0.0.0/0" }
        ],
        "ranges": [
            [{ "subnet": "10.85.0.0/16" }]
        ]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

{{< note >}}
Make sure that the default `subnet` range (`10.85.0.0/16`) does not overlap with

> one of your active networks. If so, you can edit the file and change it

Reviewer 5: "If so"? Do you mean "If there is a possible overlap"?

Author: Done. You're right.

containerRuntimeEndpoint: unix:///var/run/crio/crio.sock
EOF
```

{{< note >}}
Because you are not setting up a production cluster, you are using plain HTTP
(`readOnlyPort: 10255`) for unauthenticated queries to the kubelet's API.
{{< /note >}}

See [Ports and Protocols](/docs/reference/networking/ports-and-protocols/).

Install:

```shell
chmod +x kubelet
sudo cp kubelet /usr/bin/
```

Create a `systemd` service unit file:

```shell
sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service <<EOF
[Unit]
Description=Kubelet

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/bin/kubelet \
 --config=/etc/kubernetes/kubelet.yaml
Restart=always

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

Enable and start the `kubelet` service:

```shell
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable --now kubelet.service
```

Quick test:

```shell
sudo systemctl is-active kubelet.service
```

The output is similar to:

```
active
```

Detailed service check:

```shell
sudo journalctl -u kubelet.service
```

You can query the Kubelet's API endpoint at `http://localhost:10250/pods`:

```shell
curl http://localhost:10250/pods
```

Tip: Use `jq` to "prettify" the JSON output:

```shell
curl http://localhost:10250/pods | jq '.'
```

> 

Reviewer 5: This is irrelevant.

Author: I''l leave the `jq` command and remove the intro paragraph. `jq` is a very useful tool to make JSON output more human-readable and it is widely used by Kubernetes practitioners.

The output is similar to:

```json
{
  "kind": "PodList",
  "apiVersion": "v1",
  "metadata": {},
  "items": null
}
```

## Run a Pod in the Kubelet

In standalone mode, you can run Pods using Pod manifests. The manifests can either
be on the local filesystem, or fetched via HTTP from a configuration source.

Create a manifest for a Pod:

```shell
cat <<EOF > static-web.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: static-web
spec:
  containers:
    - name: web
      image: nginx
      ports:
        - name: web
          containerPort: 80
          protocol: TCP
EOF
```

Deploy:

> 

Reviewer 5: Remove these?

Author: Done. I've only found one instance. Do you see more?

Copy the `static-web.yaml` manifest file to the `/etc/kubernetes/manifests` directory.

```shell

> sudo cp static-web.yaml /etc/kubernetes/manifests/

Reviewer 5: Even for a test environment, I would NOT put kubelet.conf in the same directory with static Pods.

Author: They're separatate dirs: `/etc/kubernetes` and `/etc/kubernetes/manifests`, Pod manifests go under `manifests/`.
What do you suggest?

Reviewer: Using the two separate directories looks OK to me.

Reviewer 5: Ah I see. Line 265 (below) doesn't have `manifests`. So, that is fine.

> sudo tee /etc/kubernetes/kubelet.yaml <<EOF

```

### Find out information about the Kubelet and the Pod {#find-out-information}

The Pod networking plugin creates a network bridge (`cni0`) and a pair of `veth` interfaces
for each Pod (one of the pair is inside the newly made Pod, and the other is at the host level).

You can query (again) the Kubelet's API endpoint at `http://localhost:10250/pods`:

```shell
curl http://localhost:10250/pods | jq '.'
```

This time, there will be additional information about the running Pod.

> 

Reviewer 5: Do we have to be so wordy??

Author: Done. No, we don't.

* Launch a Pod running `nginx` that listens to requests on TCP port 80 on the Pod's IP address.

## {{% heading "prerequisites" %}}

- Admin (root) access to a Linux system running `systemd`.
- Access to the Internet to download the various components needed for the tutorial, such as:
    - A {{< glossary_tooltip text="container runtime" term_id="container-runtime" >}}
that implements the Kubernetes {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="cri" text="(CRI)">}}.
    - Network plugins {{< glossary_tooltip text="Container Networking Interface (CNI)" term_id="cni" >}}
- Required CLI tools: `curl`, `tar`.
- Suggested CLI tools: `jq`.

<!-- lessoncontent -->

## Download, install, and configure the components

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

{{< note >}}
Download the latest available versions of the required packages.
The relative path to the downloaded software is assumed to be the `sources` directory.
{{< /note >}}

### Create the sources directory

```shell
mkdir sources
cd sources/
```

### Swap configuration

The default behavior of kubelet is to fail to start if swap memory is detected on a node.
This means that swap should either be disabled or tolerated by kubelet.

> 
> * To tolerate swap, add `failSwapOn: false` to the kubelet configuration or as a command line argument.
>   Note: even if `failSwapOn: false` is provided, workloads wouldn't have swap access by default.
>   This can be changed by setting a `swapBehavior`, again in the kubelet configuration file. To use swap,
>   set a `swapBehavior` other than the default `NoSwap` setting.
>   See [Swap memory management](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#swap-memory) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{{< note >}}
If you configure the kubelet to tolerate swap, the kubelet still configures Pods (and the
containers in those Pods) not to use swap space. To find out how Pods can actually 
use the available swap, you can read more about 
[swap memory management](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#swap-memory)
on Linux nodes.
{{< /note >}}

If you have swap enabled, either add `failSwapOn: false` to the kubelet configuration,
or disable the current swap space.
```

I wouldn't mention the command line argument (it's deprecated).

Author: Agree. Done

---
title: Running Kubelet in Standalone Mode
content_type: tutorial
weight: 10
---

<!-- overview -->

This tutorial shows you how to run a standalone Kubelet instance.

In standalone mode, the Kubelet allows you to manage containers using PodTemplates,

> which brings the benefits of running tightly coupled applications as a single unit while

Reviewer 7: I don't think this is accurate. The Kubelet manages pods directly, I don't think there's any support for static PodTemplates.

The main defining feature of standalone mode is that the Kubelet isn't registered with an API server. The usecase you've described is a valid one, but the main use case I've seen for this is running the control plane nodes.

Author: Thank you for your review @tallclair. I will rewrite this paragraph accordingly. Could you (as far as you know) elaborate on how the standalone Kubelet mode can be used for running the control plane nodes? We were trying to illustrate more use cases.

Reviewer 7: If you want to run your API server and etcd as pods, there are a bunch of risks to running them as pods in the cluster (the self-hosting approach). A safer way to achieve that is by using a standalone Kubelet to run at least those 2 components

Author: Interesting. Thanks

Reviewer: Try:
```markdown
In standalone mode, the kubelet allows you to manage containers using Pod _manifests_
```

A detail: those manifests can either be on the local filesystem, or fetched via HTTP from a configuration source.

Author: Done

- Required CLI tools: `curl`, `tar`.
- Suggested CLI tools: `jq`.

<!-- lessoncontent -->

## Download, install, and configure the components

{{% thirdparty-content %}}

{{< note >}}
Download the latest available versions of the required packages.
The relative path to the downloaded software is assumed to be the `sources` directory.
{{< /note >}}

### Create the sources directory

```shell
mkdir sources
cd sources/
```

### Swap configuration

The default behavior of kubelet is to fail to start if swap memory is detected on a node.
This means that swap should either be disabled or tolerated by kubelet.

{{< note >}}
If you configure the kubelet to tolerate swap, the kubelet still configures Pods (and the
containers in those Pods) not to use swap space. To find out how Pods can actually
use the available swap, you can read more about
[swap memory management](/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/#swap-memory) on Linux nodes.
{{< /note >}}

If you have swap memory enabled, either disable it or add `failSwapOn: false` to the
kubelet configuration file.

To disable swap temporarily:

```shell
sudo swapoff -a
```

To make this change persistent across reboots:

> 

Reviewer: I'm not at all keen on this. It's fine to run this if you know what it does, but to a learner they might lose their swap configuration and then not know how to get it back.

Better to advise them to edit `/etc/fstab` rather than offering them a potentially confusing one liner.

Make sure swap is disabled in `/etc/fstab` or `systemd.swap`, depending how it was configured on your system.

> 

Reviewer: > ```
> sudo systemctl disable swap.target
> sudo systemctl stop swap.target
> ```

We're possibly assuming too much about their system; I'm not sure that this reliably disables swap once it is active, and also I'd combine the two (`systemctl disable --now`).

### Enable IPv4 packet forwarding

> 

Author: Done

```shell
sudo tee /etc/sysctl.d/k8s.conf <<EOF
net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1
EOF

> 

Author: Done

sudo sysctl --system
```
The output is similar to:

```
...
* Applying /etc/sysctl.d/k8s.conf ...
net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1
* Applying /etc/sysctl.conf ...
```

### Network Plugins

This tutorial suggests downloading CNI network plugins.

Visit [releases](https://github.com/containernetworking/plugins/releases) (external link).

{{< tabs name="download_cni_plugins" >}}
{{< tab name="x86-64" codelang="bash" >}}
curl -LO https://github.com/containernetworking/plugins/releases/download/v1.5.1/cni-plugins-linux-amd64-v1.5.1.tgz
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="ARM64" codelang="bash" >}}

> curl -LO https://github.com/containernetworking/plugins/releases/download/v1.5.1/cni-plugins-linux-arm64-v1.5.1.tgz

Reviewer 7: These links are going to become out of date very fast. I'd prefer to just leave the above recommendation to visit the releases page, and not provide the specific download URLs.

Author: I know, they are there for illustrative purposes only. Similar to these ones in the `kubectl` [install docs](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-linux/). I need to tweak them so they're closer to that one.

{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Install:

```shell
sudo mkdir -p /opt/cni/bin
```

{{< tabs name="install_cni_plugins" >}}
{{< tab name="x86-64" codelang="bash" >}}
sudo tar Cxvf /opt/cni/bin/ cni-plugins-linux-amd64-v1.5.1.tgz
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="ARM64" codelang="bash" >}}
sudo tar Cxvf /opt/cni/bin/ cni-plugins-linux-arm64-v1.5.1.tgz
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Quick test:

```shell
/opt/cni/bin/host-local --version
```

The output is similar to:

```
CNI host-local plugin v1.5.1
CNI protocol versions supported: 0.1.0, 0.2.0, 0.3.0, 0.3.1, 0.4.0, 1.0.0
```

Configure:

```shell
sudo mkdir -p /etc/cni

sudo tee /etc/cni/cni.template <<EOF
{
  "name": "containerd",
  "cniVersion": "1.0.0",
  "plugins": [{
    "type": "ptp",
    "ipMasq": true,
    "ipam": {
      "type": "host-local",
      "subnet": "{{.PodCIDR}}",
      "routes": [
        {"dst": "0.0.0.0/0"}
      ]
    }
  },{
    "type": "portmap",
    "capabilities": {
      "portMappings": true
    }
  }]
}
EOF
```

> ### Container runtime

Reviewer 7: It seems a little weird for us to reproduce all this containerd setup documentation here. Maybe it would be better to just link to the containerd setup guide, https://github.com/containerd/containerd/blob/main/docs/getting-started.md? You could also include a cri-o option: https://github.com/cri-o/cri-o/blob/main/install.md

Author: We've already reproduced the [container runtimes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/container-runtimes/) in our own website. But maybe I could just link to that page and remove those steps. 

The idea of the tutorial was to have simple, step-by-step instructions all in one place for quick testing, though.

You're right. I'll add a section for CRI-O. We should strive to be agnostic, as much as possible.

Author: @tallclair, I was testing `cri-o` as the **container runtime**, thanks for the suggestion. It's interesting... If we use `cri-o` instead of `containerd`, we can skip both the **Network Plugins** installation & configuration and the **runc** installation sections.

`cri-o` has an [installer](https://github.com/cri-o/cri-o/blob/main/install.md) that includes the `cni-plugins`with a default configuration to make them work out-of-the-box, and the built-in `crun` to run containers, so no need for `runc` (it can use both, actually).

We could get rid of those sections and just leave the links in case somebody still wants to use `containerd` and omit the instructions and configuration files. Or just leave them, there's always somebody that's going to be unhappy because of our choice of runtimes.

If we do write instructions for both `containerd` _and_ `cri-o`, or vice versa, it's going to be a lengthier document, for sure. What do you think, @sftim?

Author: Done

chmod +x runc.arm64
sudo cp runc.arm64 /usr/sbin/runc
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Quick test:

```shell
runc --version
```

The output is similar to:

```
runc version 1.1.14
...
```

### Kubelet

Download the [latest stable release](/releases/download/) of the Kubelet.

{{< tabs name="download_kubelet" >}}
{{< tab name="x86-64" codelang="bash" >}}
curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/release/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/amd64/kubelet"
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab name="ARM64" codelang="bash" >}}
curl -LO "https://dl.k8s.io/release/$(curl -L -s https://dl.k8s.io/release/stable.txt)/bin/linux/arm64/kubelet"
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Configure:

{{< note >}}
This tutorial uses the `10.241.1.0/24` network range (which is a private network).
Make sure you don't have any conflicts with an existing network. If necessary,
use a network that is available to you.
{{< /note >}}

```shell
sudo mkdir -p /etc/kubernetes/manifests
```

```shell
sudo tee /etc/kubernetes/kubelet.yaml <<EOF
apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: KubeletConfiguration
authentication:
  webhook:
    enabled: false
authorization:
  mode: AlwaysAllow
enableServer: false
logging:
  format: text

> readOnlyPort: 10250

Reviewer 7: 10250 is the default for the authenticated server, why override that?

Author: Yes, I should change that to a different, arbitrary port.

Reviewer 7: 10255 is the default: https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/blob/3de975b732ed40a586f3b0b979ff8b7170ba1ea1/pkg/cluster/ports/ports.go#L37

Author: Thanks for the link

> readOnlyPort: 10250

Reviewer 7: Add a note somewhere that this is an insecure configuration. Is there a page you can link to on setting up Kubelet authentication?

Author: I will add a note. AFAIK, we only have the [reference docs](https://deploy-preview-48094--kubernetes-io-main-staging.netlify.app/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kubelet/) with _all_ the options listed in one place.

Reviewer: Use a [caution](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#caution) callout for this.

Author: Done

podCIDR: 10.241.1.0/24
staticPodPath: /etc/kubernetes/manifests
EOF
```

Install:

```shell
chmod +x kubelet
sudo cp kubelet /usr/bin/
```

```shell
sudo tee /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service <<EOF
[Unit]
Description=Kubelet

[Service]
ExecStart=/usr/bin/kubelet \
 --config=/etc/kubernetes/kubelet.yaml
Restart=always

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
EOF
```

```shell
sudo systemctl daemon-reload
sudo systemctl enable --now kubelet.service
```

Quick test:

```shell
systemctl is-active kubelet.service
```

The output is similar to:

```
active
```

Detailed service check:

```shell
sudo journalctl -u kubelet.service
```

## Run a static Pod in the Kubelet

In standalone mode, you can only run [static Pods](/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/#static-pods).
The kubelet can fetch the static Pod configuration from a local filesystem,
or over a network using HTTP.

Create a manifest for a static Pod:

```shell
cat <<EOF > static-web.yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: static-web
  labels:

>     role: myrole

Reviewer 7: nit: seems superfluous?

Author: Agree
